Update devcontainer-cli topic for new CLI (#5489)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/remote/devcontainer-cli.md

---
Order: 14
Area: remote
TOCTitle: devcontainer CLI
PageTitle: Installing and working with the devcontainer CLI
ContentId: 8946213d-716e-41ca-955f-944a41c70353
MetaDescription: Documentation on using the development container (devcontainer) command-line interface
DateApproved: 7/7/2022
---
# Development container CLI

> This topic covers the development container command-line interface (devcontainer CLI), which allows you to build and manage development containers, and is a companion to the [Development Containers Specification](https://containers.dev).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic covers the development container command-line interface (dev container CLI), which allows you to build and manage development containers, and is a companion to the [Development Containers Specification](https://containers.dev).
```

## Development containers

A consistent, predictable environment is key to a productive and enjoyable software development experience.

> Containers (such as [Docker](https://www.docker.com)) have historically been used to standardize apps when they're deployed, but there's a great opportunity to support additional scenarios, including continuous integration (CI), test automation, and full-featured coding environments. A **development container** provides this working environment and ensures your project has the tools and software it needs, whether it's complex and distributed or just has a few requirements.

Reviewer: Docker isn't really a container itself but rather an engine/provider of containers. Maybe we amend to something like the following, or just remove mention of it?

 ```suggestion
Containers (such as those provided by [Docker](https://www.docker.com)) have historically been used to standardize apps when they're deployed, but there's a great opportunity to support additional scenarios, including continuous integration (CI), test automation, and full-featured coding environments. A **development container** provides this working environment and ensures your project has the tools and software it needs, whether it's complex and distributed or just has a few requirements.
```

Author: I wanted to have a concrete example in case someone has no idea what Containers are.
Docker provides but also lets you create containers, so how about "Containers (for example [Docker](link) containers) have"

![Diagram comparing dev versus production containers](images/devcontainer-cli/dev-container-stages.png)

> Develop containers are supported in Visual Studio Code via the [Remote - Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) and in [GitHub Codespaces](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/setting-up-your-project-for-codespaces/introduction-to-dev-containers). This support is backed by [devcontainer.json](/docs/remote/devcontainerjson-reference.md), a structured JSON with Comments (jsonc) metadata format to configure a containerized environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Development containers are supported in Visual Studio Code via the [Remote - Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) and in [GitHub Codespaces](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/setting-up-your-project-for-codespaces/introduction-to-dev-containers). This support is backed by [devcontainer.json](/docs/remote/devcontainerjson-reference.md), a structured JSON with Comments (jsonc) metadata format to configure a containerized environment.
```

Author: Oops

> As containerizing production workloads becomes commonplace, dev containers have become broadly useful for scenarios beyond VS Code. To promote dev containers, work has started on the [Development Containers Specification](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec), which empowers anyone in any tool to configure a consistent dev environment. As a companion to the specification, there is the open-source **dev container CLI**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As containerizing production workloads becomes commonplace, dev containers have become broadly useful for scenarios beyond VS Code. To promote dev containers in any environment, work has started on the [Development Containers Specification](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec), which empowers anyone in any tool to configure a consistent dev environment. The open-source **dev container CLI** serves as the reference implementation to the specification.
```

## The dev container CLI

> The dev container CLI is a reference implementation for the dev container specification.

Reviewer: If we use the rewording I suggested above, I don't think we'd need this sentence (or we'd want to rephrase to make it feel a bit less repetitive). 

```suggestion
```

> When tools like VS Code and Codespaces detect a `devcontainer.json` file in a user's project, they use a CLI to configure a dev container. The devcontainer CLI is a reference implementation so that individual users and other tools can read in `devcontainer.json` metadata and create dev containers from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When tools like VS Code and Codespaces detect a `devcontainer.json` file in a user's project, they use a CLI to configure a dev container. The dev container CLI is a reference implementation so that individual users and other tools can read in `devcontainer.json` metadata and create dev containers from it.
```

This CLI can either be used directly or integrated into product experiences, similar to how it's integrated with Remote - Containers and Codespaces today. It currently supports both a simple single container option and integrates with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) for multi-container scenarios.

The CLI is available for review in a new [devcontainers/cli](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) repository and you can read more about its development in [this issue in the spec repo](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec/issues/9).

## System requirements

> To use the VS Code `devcontainer` CLI, you'll need the following on your system or CI/DevOps environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the dev container CLI, you'll need the following on your system or CI/DevOps environment:
```

1. [Node.js (version 14 or greater)](https://nodejs.org).
1. [The `docker` CLI](/docs/remote/containers#installation).
1. [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads)
1. C/C++ compiler

The VS Code [How to Contribute](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/wiki/How-to-Contribute) wiki has details about the recommended toolsets.

## Installation

> You can try out the devcontainer CLI, either by installing its npm package or building the CLI repo from sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try out the dev container CLI, either by installing its npm package or building the CLI repo from sources.
```

Container started
{"outcome":"success","containerId":"f0a055ff056c1c1bb99cc09930efbf3a0437c54d9b4644695aa23c1d57b4bd11","remoteUser":"vscode","remoteWorkspaceFolder":"/workspaces/vscode-remote-try-rust"}
```

You can then run commands in this dev container:

```bash
devcontainer exec --workspace-folder <path-to-vscode-remote-try-rust> cargo run
```

This will compile and run the Rust sample, outputting:

```bash
[33 ms] dev-containers-cli 0.1.0.
   Compiling hello_remote_world v0.1.0 (/workspaces/vscode-remote-try-rust)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 1.06s
     Running `target/debug/hello_remote_world`
Hello, VS Code Remote - Containers!
{"outcome":"success"}
```

These steps above are also provided in the CLI repo's [README](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli/blob/main/README.md).

## Automation

> If you'd like to use the devcontainer CLI in your CI/CD builds or test automation, you can find examples of GitHub Actions and Azure DevOps Tasks in the [devcontainers/ci](https://github.com/devcontainers/ci) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to use the dev container CLI in your CI/CD builds or test automation, you can find examples of GitHub Actions and Azure DevOps Tasks in the [devcontainers/ci](https://github.com/devcontainers/ci) repository.
```

## Feedback

> The devcontainer CLI and specification are under active development and we welcome your feedback, which you can provide in [this issue](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli/issues/7), or through new issues and pull requests in the [devcontainers/cli](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dev container CLI and specification are under active development and we welcome your feedback, which you can provide via [GitHub Discussions in the spec repo](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec/discussions), or through new issues and pull requests in the [devcontainers/cli](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli) repo.
```

## Next steps

> * [Dev container specification repository](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec) - File and review issues to shape the direction of development containers and the dev container CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Dev container specification repository](https://github.com/devcontainers/spec) - File and review issues to shape the direction of development containers and the dev container CLI by reviewing and contributing to the open specification.
```

Author: I like to have Next steps lists avoid line breaks so how about: "Read and contribute to the open specification"
There has been plenty of mention of what the specification covers earlier
